---
title: Xpand-IT
description: I was an "Xpander" for a while
cover: /img/experience/xpand-it.png
---

Customer: Thales

Period: June 2014 – March 2016

Role: Frontend Developer

Achievements:
- Helped architect and create APIS 8 (Advanced Passenger Information System 8)

The long version:
Founding member of the Advanced Passenger Information System 8. Participated in defining architecture, technology choices and teams. Focused mostly on the frontend. Co-designed all the apps wireframes and worked closely with the design team in order to style them. Created several widgets using jQuery and Kendo UI emphasizing modularity and UX. He introduced Angular.JS into the project by showing the benefits of the framework for this specific project.

Methods, techniques, frameworks:
Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Kendo UI, LESS, AngularJS, Java 8, Struts2, MongoDB, Wildfly, WebSockets, Maven, Git, JIRA, Jenkins, Sonar, Nexus, RestEasy

<br/><br/>

Customer: Via Verde

Period: November 2013 – October  2014

Role: Full stack  developer

Achievements:
- Created a feature to allow customer to plan their trips around the country and get toll fees information for their trips

The long version:
Providing topological information in an automated way to Via Verde about all Portuguese motorways and their connections. Developing web-services to provide data to mobile (IPhone and Android) and web apps. Created a web app integrating Google Maps to allow users to plan routes using the Portuguese motorway system and providing them the official data from Via Verde regarding toll fees, distance, route alternatives, etc.

Methods, techniques, frameworks:
Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Java, Struts2, Oracle SQL, JBoss, SVN, JIRA, RestEasy
